The Federal Reserve held interest rates steady on Wednesday with a bias toward easing later in the year amid what Chairman Jerome Powell called a strong economy. But even Mr. Powell suggested that he had expected a weaker economy by now, and it's worth asking what's behind the strong recent growth. One under-noticed answer: a continuing surge of government spending.

Retail spending growth continues to exceed pre-pandemic levels, and employers keep adding jobs despite higher interest rates. This has fueled a stock-market rally that adds to the wealth effect for those who hold shares.

"When stock markets are up, it's kind of like this little drug we all feel like it's just great," JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon said recently in Davos. He was speaking for his fellow CEOs, though many Americans still wince when they see their grocery bills. But Mr. Dimon added: "But remember, we've had so much fiscal monetary stimulation." Yes, we have.

The San Francisco Federal Reserve in November estimated that households still have $430 billion in excess savings from the pandemic. These savings stem from a potpourri of Covid transfer payments, three-and-a-half years of student loan forbearance, and home refinancing at low interest rates.

The Administration is also slathering the economy with trillions of dollars of spending from the Inflation Reduction Act, Chips and Science Act, and infrastructure bill. Not a day goes by that our inbox doesn't receive a Biden Administration email, or several, boasting about another multibillion-dollar grant somewhere across the country.

The federal budget deficit for the 2023 fiscal year clocked in at $2 trillion and 7.5% of GDP -- roughly double what the deficit averaged as a share of the economy from 2016 to 2019. Incredibly, the deficit during the last fiscal year was $400 billion larger than the growth in nominal GDP, and it shows no signs of shrinking.

The Congressional Budget Office says the federal deficit was $509 billion in the first three months of the current fiscal year, which is 21% larger than during the same period in the prior year. It's no accident this is all hitting in an election year.

Social Security and Medicare spending climbed 12% to 13% in the first three months of this fiscal year compared to last. Sweetened subsidies are boosting ObamaCare enrollment. Growing entitlement spending is one reason that government, healthcare and social assistance accounted for more than half of the net new jobs in December, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

The deficit would be even larger if not for the Internal Revenue Service holding back a wave of more stimulus. The agency in September paused processing new claims for the Covid-era Employee Retention Credit owing to concerns over abuse and fraud. By one estimate, the IRS has a $244 billion backlog of claims, which will flood the economy when the IRS processes them.

All of this spending contributes to GDP, at least in the short term. But much of this isn't productive growth that will improve living standards in the long term, and the bills for all this spending will probably be paid in higher taxes.

---

That's why it's mind-boggling that House Republicans want to help Democrats throw another deficit party. The bipartisan tax deal that was scheduled for a House vote Wednesday night would sweeten the child tax credit and extend some business tax breaks through 2025. The official Joint Committee on Taxation score is $78 billion. But Dan Clifton of Strategas Research Partners says the bill's provisions would actually cut taxes by more than $200 billion in the first two years.

These include a larger deduction for interest payments so businesses can increase debt financing, along with immediate expensing for research and development and bonus depreciation for equipment. These tax extenders are temporary, and they retroactively reward investments or move forward some by a year or two. This reduces their long-term growth impact.

Democrats have signed on because they view the child-credit provisions as a down payment on a guaranteed annual income and want to boost flagging business investment this year. The political mystery is why Republicans want to add their signature. The tax bill negotiated by Democrat Ron Wyden and GOP Rep. Jason Smith is another in-kind contribution to the Democratic re-election campaign.